Plato:
	Plato believed that concepts had a universal form, an ideal form, which leads to his idealistic philosophy.  

	For Plato, thought experiments and reasoning would be enough to "prove" a concept or establish the qualities of an object

	Plato was Socratic in his belief that knowledge is virtue, in and of itself. This means that to know the good is to do the good, i.e., that knowing the right thing to do will lead to one automatically doing the right thing; this implied that virtue could be taught by teaching someone right from wrong, good from evil.

	Plato stated that virtue was sufficient for happiness, that there was no such thing as "moral luck" to grant rewards

	Plato felt that the individual should subsume his or her interests to that of society in order to achieve a perfect from of government

Aristotle:
	Aristotle believed that universal forms were not necessarily attached to each object or concept, and that each instance of an object or a concept had to be analyzed on its own

	Aristotle dismissed this in favor of direct observation and experience.

	Aristotle stated that knowing what was right was not enough, that one had to choose to act in the proper manner—in essence, to create the habit of doing good.

	Aristotle believed that virtue was necessary for happiness, but insufficient by itself, needing adequate social constructs to help a virtuous person feel satisfaction and contentment. 

	Aristotle saw the basic political unit as the city (polis), which took precedence over the family, which in turn took precedence over the individual.

Descartes:
	Descartes thought that the Scholastics’ method was prone to doubt given their reliance on sensation as the source for all knowledge

	His basic strategy was to consider false any belief that falls prey to even the slightest doubt. This “hyperbolic doubt” then serves to clear the way for what Descartes considers to be an unprejudiced search for the truth.

	He eventually discovers that “I exist” is impossible to doubt and is, therefore, absolutely certain.

	Descartes intended to replace their system based on final causal explanations with his system based on mechanistic principles.

Kant:
	our knowledge is constrained to mathematics and the science of the natural, empirical world. It is impossible, Kant argues, to extend knowledge to the supersensible realm of speculative metaphysics. The reason that knowledge has these constraints, Kant argues, is that the mind plays an active role in constituting the features of experience and limiting the mind’s access only to the empirical realm of space and time.

	Kant responded to his predecessors by arguing against the Empiricists that the mind is not a blank slate that is written upon by the empirical world, and by rejecting the Rationalists’ notion that pure, a priori knowledge of a mind-independent world was possible.  Reason itself is structured with forms of experience and categories that give a phenomenal and logical structure to any possible object of empirical experience.